Installing and using Jenkins

With the mu generator we are aiming to quickly develop and deploy websites.
Our text editor (komodo) provides a rapid protyping workspace using a
localhost server for instant browser preview when we alter our content, styles or
scripts.

When we bring our project files under version source control(git) every time we
push our local commits to to remote githup repo we create versioned backup of
our project. This means we can backout of any changes made if required.

When deploy to our localhost server we want to deploy to our remote server at
the same time, but not always! To avoid a remote deployment we want to create a
branch off the master, work on that branch, then merge the branch back into the
master. When a change occurs on the remote master **only then** we want to trigger a
remote deployment of our project.



To make this work we will use [http://jenkins-ci.org/](jenkins) and the [github plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitHub+plugin)
for jenkins and use Githubs [Post-Receive Hooks](https://help.github.com/articles/post-receive-hooks)
* On server make sure git is installed and create git user

```
    git config --global user.name "grantmacken"
    git config --global user.email  "grantmacken@gmail.com"
```

* Setup Jenkins as upstart script.

* Lockdown Jenkins to the 'user.name' so only that user can login to Jenkins

* Follow instuctions on how to
[Trigger Jenkins builds by pushing to Github](http://fourkitchens.com/blog/2011/09/20/trigger-jenkins-builds-pushing-github)


Deploy Proccess
---------------

1. If on git 'origin/master' ( not on a 'git branch' ), then Github
web hook 'posts' build info to Jenkins which then replicates( builds )
'origin/master' build in Jenkins workspace.

2. Jenkins calls Ant


On remote server we need to install

```
apt-get install python-pip python-lxml
pip install markdown2
pip install bumpversion


apt-get install ruby rubygems
gem install bundle

```
